SERVICE AGREEMENT

This Service Agreement (this “Agreement”) is entered into the date of last signature (the “Effective Date”), by and between Texas Trees Foundation (“Foundation”) and The University of Texas at Rio Grande Valley (“UTRGV” or “Subcontractor”), an institution and agency of higher education authorized under the laws of the State of Texas and a component of The University of Texas System.

STATEMENT OF BACKGROUND

Foundation desires to contract with UTRGV to provide certain services as described in Exhibit A (“SOW”) between UTRGV and Foundation.  UTRGV desires to be engaged by Foundation as provided herein. 

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants stated herein and other valuable considerations, the receipt and adequacy of which are acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

Services  Subject to and in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, UTRGV
shall provide the services described in SOW (the “Services”), which may be amended from time to time by the written agreement of the parties hereto (“Change Order”).  UTRGV shall be responsible for the payment of any and all applicable state and federal taxes based on the Services performed or products delivered pursuant to this Agreement. UTRGV acknowledges and agrees that time is of the essence and agrees to ensure the performance of its work and the work of its subcontractors so that the Services shall be completed in a timely manner, as may be further described in SOW.  

Total Compensation The total not-to-exceed compensation payable to UTRGV under this Agreement shall be One Hundred Fifty-Seven Thousand Six Hundred Twenty-Five Dollars ($157,625.00). 
Payment Terms This is a fixed-price service agreement based on milestone deliverables. The total contract amount shall be invoiced proportionally based on milestone completion percentages and corresponding allocation amounts defined in Exhibit D. Invoices shall reflect milestone progress achieved during the reporting period and shall be consistent with the milestone completion percentages and allocation amounts defined in the Milestone Completion by Month (% Cumulative) and Milestone Allocation and Billing Schedule tables in Exhibit D.
Progress reports and corresponding invoices are due by the 5th of each month and shall be submitted to the financial contact listed in the contacts table below. Each progress report shall describe milestone progress achieved during the reporting period and support the corresponding invoice amount. 
Following acceptance of UTRGV’s progress report and corresponding invoice, Foundation shall use reasonable efforts to seek and obtain reimbursement in a timely manner and shall remit payment to UTRGV within ten (10) days after Foundation’s receipt of such reimbursement from the Texas A&M Forest Service.

Representations, Warranties and Covenants  UTRGV certifies to and covenants with Foundation as follows:

UTRGV has no legal or contractual obligation that is inconsistent with or in conflict with this Agreement, or which would prevent, limit, or impair its performance of any part of this Agreement. UTRGV agrees to notify Foundation immediately if any such interest or obligation arises. 

UTRGV certifies and agrees that it shall complete the Services in a competent and workmanlike manner.  UTRGV further certifies and agrees that it shall, to the best of its ability, skill, and diligence, in supervising, directing, and performing the Services and shall have the sole responsibility and control over the performance of the Services, including the methods, techniques, means, and sequences for coordinating and completing the various portions of the Services. UTRGV hereby acknowledges and agrees that such responsibility and control over the Services may not be assigned, delegated, or subcontracted by UTRGV, in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of Foundation, which may be withheld in Foundation’s sole discretion. Any assignment in violation of the foregoing will be null and void ab initio and be grounds for immediate termination of this Agreement.

UTRGV agrees, to the best of its ability, to take appropriate precautions to assure the safety of all persons, including, but not limited to, its own employees and ‎other contractors and subcontractors and their employees, whose safety might otherwise be jeopardized by any risk of harm relating to or arising out of the work. UTRGV shall comply ‎with all applicable safety laws and regulations and that all work, labor, services and materials to be ‎furnished by UTRGV shall strictly comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws, ‎rules, regulations, statutes, ordinances and directives (hereafter “Laws”) now in force or hereafter ‎shall be in effect and further agrees to comply with any and all safety standards established during the ‎progress of the work by Foundation. UTRGV with 5 or more employees shall establish and ‎implement a safety program for its work. If requested, UTRGV shall submit its safety program ‎for review by the Foundation. Any review of this UTRGV’s safety program by Foundation shall not ‎be deemed to release UTRGV or in any way diminish UTRGV’s liability by way of ‎indemnity or otherwise, as assumed by it under this Agreement to the extent authorized by Texas law.‎

UTRGV possesses all necessary licenses and permits to perform the Services.  UTRGV is solely responsible for furnishing and paying for all permits and licenses necessary to complete the Services, and legal evidence of such shall be delivered to Foundation upon request.

UTRGV (1) does not have a tax delinquency, meaning that it is not subject to any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an award with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability, (2) has not been convicted (or had an officer or agent acting on its behalf convicted) of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within twenty-four (24) months preceding the Effective Date or the effective date of any SOW, and (3) is not excluded, debarred, or suspended from entering into covered transactions with the federal government or any state or local government, including any department or agency thereof.

UTRGV (including any owner, director, manager, officer, employee, subcontractor or agent of UTRGV) shall not: (1) engage in any form of trafficking in persons during the period of time that the award is in effect; (2) procure a commercial sex act during the term of this Agreement or any SOW; or (3) use forced labor in the performance of this Agreement or any SOW.

UTRGV shall maintain a “drug-free” workplace for any employees or subcontractors performing under this Agreement, including by (1) establishing policies prohibiting the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance, (2) publishing the actions to be taken for any violation of such policies, and (3) notifying Foundation if UTRGV or any such agent of Subcontractor is convicted for violating a criminal drug statute within ten (10) days thereof.

UTRGV shall not require its employees, contractors, or agents seeking to report fraud, waste, or abuse under this Agreement to sign or comply with internal confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting them from lawfully reporting such waste, fraud, or abuse.

UTRGV shall ensure that all of its employees, contractors, or agents performing under this Agreement complete the I-9 form to certify that they are eligible for lawful employment under the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1324(a)) and shall comply with applicable regulations regarding certification and retention of the completed forms.

UTRGV is encouraged to adopt and enforce policies that ban text messaging by its agents when driving or when performing any work pursuant to this Agreement or any SOW.

With respect to any personnel employed or engaged to perform under this Agreement, UTRGV shall not discriminate against any class of persons on any basis that would violate Federal or State law and shall comply with all Federal and State laws and requirements concerning laborers, mechanics, and other personnel. 

UTRGV shall inform any of its employees, contractors, or agents performing under this Agreement that they are subject to certain whistleblower rights and remedies as prescribed by Federal or State law, including, without limitation, 41 U.S.C. s4712m, which notice shall be made in the predominant native language of the workforce.    

Termination
Termination for Breach: Foundation may immediately terminate this Agreement in whole or in part upon breach of any material provision hereof by UTRGV. 
Termination Without Cause: Foundation may terminate this Agreement in whole or in part for any reason upon providing UTRGV with ten (10) days prior written notice.
This Agreement may be terminated, in whole or in part, immediately by either party upon a ninety (90) day written notice to the other party if the parties are unable to agree upon the terms of a Change Order within a time period set by Foundation.  Termination of this Agreement by either party shall not affect the rights and obligations of the parties accrued prior to the effective date of the termination. In the event of termination by Foundation for any reason, Foundation shall pay UTRGV for milestone completion percentages and corresponding allocation amounts earned through the effective date of termination, as documented in UTRGV’s accepted progress reports and consistent with Exhibit D.
Any open SOW shall survive the termination of this Agreement, and both parties shall be required to complete their obligations arising from the SOW. 
Limitations of Liability TO THE EXTENT AUTHORIZED BY THE CONSTITUTION AND THE LAWS OF TEXAS, AND EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT CAUSED BY THE FRAUD, GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT OF FOUNDATION, IN NO EVENT SHALL FOUNDATION BE LIABLE FOR LOST PROFITS, OR FOR ANY DIRECT SPECIAL, INDIRECT, EXEMPLARY, PUNITIVE, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING LOSS OF BUSINESS, REGARDLESS OF THE FORM OF ACTION, EVEN IF FOUNDATION HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

Indemnification and Insurance
UTRGV, to the extent authorized under Texas law, shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the Foundation, its agents, employees, officers, affiliates, successors, and assigns (“Indemnified Persons”) from any and all expenses, fees, costs, judgments or damages, including but not limited to reasonable attorneys’ fees, with respect to any claim, action or threat of action of any kind or nature asserted against such Indemnified Persons in any way arising out of or in connection with the performance of UTRGV or any of its subcontractors or agents under this Agreement or any agreement between Foundation and the ultimate beneficiary of the Services (the “Beneficiary”), whether such claims are brought by the Beneficiary or other third parties.
Foundation, to the extent under Texas law, shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless UTRGV, its agents, employees, officers, affiliates, successors, and assigns (“Indemnified Persons”) from any and all expenses, fees, costs, judgments or damages, including but not limited to reasonable attorneys’ fees, with respect to any claim, action or threat of action of any kind or nature asserted against such Indemnified Persons in any way arising out of or in connection with the performance of Foundation or any of its subcontractors or agents under this Agreement or any agreement between Foundation and the ultimate beneficiary of the Services (the “Beneficiary”), whether such claims are brought by the Beneficiary or other third parties.
UTRGV employees are provided Workers’ Compensation coverage under a self-insured, self-managed program authorized by the Texas Labor Code, chapter 503. Therefore, UTRGV will not carry separate Employer’s Liability Insurance.
It is a stated policy of the State of Texas not to acquire commercial general liability insurance for torts committed by employees of UTRGV who are acting within their scope of employment. The parties must refer to the Texas Tort Claims Act for relief with respect to property damage, personal injury, and death proximately caused by the wrongful act or omission or negligence of an employee of UTRGV acting within the scope of his/her employment.
No Agency UTRGV understands that it has no authority, either express or implied, to act or represent that it is acting on behalf of Foundation.  Furthermore, UTRGV shall refrain from any action that would lead a third party to reasonably interpret or infer from such action that UTRGV has authority to represent or act on behalf of Foundation.

Independent Contractor  It is expressly understood that the parties are contractors independent of one another, and not joint venturers, partners, or employees, and that neither party has the authority to bind the other to any obligation or otherwise to act in any way as the representative of the other, unless otherwise expressly agreed to in a writing signed by the other party hereto.

Governing Law  This Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas, without regard to its conflict of laws principles. 

Miscellaneous
Severability:  The invalidity of any portion of this Agreement will not and shall not be deemed to affect the validity of any other provision. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, the parties agree that the remaining provisions shall be deemed to be in full force and effect as if they had been executed by both parties subsequent to the expungement of the invalid provision.
Entire Agreement:  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the parties and supersedes any prior understanding or agreement between them with respect to the subject matter hereof; provided, however, that this provision is not intended to abrogate any other written agreement between the parties executed with or after this Agreement.
Modifications:  Any modification of this Agreement or additional obligation assumed by either party in connection with this Agreement shall be binding only if evidenced in writing signed by each party or an authorized representative of each party.
Notice:  Any notice given under this Agreement shall be in writing. Written notice shall be sent by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, or by overnight delivery service.  All notices shall be effective when first received at the addresses first above written.
Survival: Any terms which by their nature are intended to survive the termination of this Agreement shall survive such termination, including but not limited to sections 3, 4, 6, and 7.
Counterparts: This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Intellectual Property: Hereby defined as all materials (including, without limitation, documents, correspondence, drawings, models, applications, maps, surveys, specifications, reports, studies, designs, plans, prints, sketches, photographs, field data, test data, and other work product) developed or produced by UTRGV in the course of performing the Service, (collectively the “UTRGV Intellectual Property”), which are and shall remain the property of the UTRGV. Foundation shall have a fully paid, non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free, perpetual, and irrevocable right to use UTRGV Intellectual Property resulting from the Project for its internal purposes without further consent from UTRGV. 
Publication: UTRGV acknowledges that Foundation shall have the right to review UTRGV pre-publication materials derived from the activities performed for Services when the project name, location, or Foundation itself is cited within such materials. Should Foundation disagree with the characterization of Foundation presented in the pre-publication materials, UTRGV agrees that UTRGV shall anonymize identifying factors with respect to the Foundation in such pre-publication materials.
State Agency: UTRGV is an agency of the State of Texas and, under the Constitution and laws of the State of Texas, possesses certain rights and privileges and only such authority as is granted to it under the Constitution and laws of the State of Texas. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement nothing herein is intended to be, nor will it be construed to be, a waiver of the sovereign immunity of UTRGV, The University of Texas System, Board of Regents, or the State of Texas, or a prospective waiver or restriction of any of the rights, remedies, claims, and privileges of UTRGV and such other governmental bodies. Moreover, notwithstanding the generality or specificity of any provision of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement as they pertain to UTRGV (or the State of Texas or any other Texas governmental body) are enforceable only to the extent authorized by the Constitution and laws of the State of Texas.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed and are deemed to be effective on the date first above written and do each hereby warrant and represent that their respective signatory, whose signature appears below has been and is on the date of this Agreement duly authorized by all necessary and appropriate corporate (or other appropriate) action to execute this Agreement.


FOUNDATION: 

Texas Trees Foundation

By:  	
Name:  	
Title:  	Date:  	



The University of Texas at Rio Grande Valley 

By:  	

Name:  Thomas B. Spencer, Ph.D.	

Title: Sr. Assoc. VP for Research Operations

Date:  	


Read and Understood 

By:  	

Date:  	

Alexis Racelis, Ph.D.
Principal Investigator




EXHIBIT A
Scope of Work (SOW)

Nothing in this SOW shall be construed to limit UTRGV’s control over the manner and means of performing the Services, provided that deliverables are subject to Foundation review and acceptance.

Purpose & Background
UTRGV will provide environmental impact evaluation support services to the Texas Trees Foundation (TTF) under the Texas A&M Forest Service Community Forestry Grants - Schoolyard Forests Program. UTRGV’s role is limited to evaluation support. Program execution and tree installation remain the TTF’s programmatic responsibility.

Project Plan 
Work proceeds in parallel across five deliverables: 
	•	Environmental Baseline Data Summary, 
	•	Environmental Monitoring Documentation Package,
	•	Forecasting & Digital Dashboard Support Materials,
	•	Environmental Data Collection Training & Technical Assistance

Fieldwork is completed rapidly using a zero-footprint manual toolkit; remote-sensing baselines and QA/QC run in parallel. Drafting documentation, dashboard architecture, and reporting materials begins early, allowing flexible milestone-based billing tied to documented progress and milestone completion percentages and corresponding allocation amounts defined in Exhibit D. Foundation review and acceptance occur iteratively; acceptance of documented milestone progress supports proportional invoicing in accordance with Exhibit D and the Payment Terms for Services section.

Methods Summary Our approach will use high‑resolution satellite/aerial imagery No fixed equipment is installed or onsite will occur.  
                       Deliverables - Definitions & Acceptance Criteria
	•	Environmental Baseline Data Summary 
Purpose: Understand existing conditions and establish a heat and canopy baseline by mapping the existing and the extend of the tree canopy across each participating campus, with a specific focus on areas transformed. 
Primary Audience: School Administrators, Texas Trees Staff
Unit of Progress: % of baseline dataset compiled/QA’d.  Evidence: logs, baseline tables/figures. Acceptance: Foundation review.

	•	Environmental Monitoring Documentation Package 
Purpose: Establish and document a monitoring framework that will be used to establish the projects forecast and later maintained by participating school districts. 
Primary Audience: School Administrators, Texas Trees Staff
Unit of Progress: % of SOP/QRG/data dictionary set drafted. 
Evidence: draft SOP sections, QRGs, and checklist templates. Acceptance: Foundation review of v1 and updates.

	•	Forecasting & Digital Dashboard Support Materials 
Purpose: Develop a public-accessible dashboard illustrating the projected effects and benefits in the change in tree canopy and heat reduction. The dashboard will serve as storyboard with images and infographics that represent the data and enable school administrators to do data tracking beyond the grant. 
Primary Audience: School Administrators, Texas Trees Staff
Unit of Progress: % of ingestion/visuals/pages/assumptions implemented. Evidence: prototype screenshots, code/logic notes, model assumption memos.  Acceptance: Foundation review of prototype iterations.

	•	Environmental Data Collection Training & Technical Assistance 
Purpose: Develop two training models to equip : 1) school administrators to continue to track changes overtime and 2) teachers to implement a tree canopy and heat monitoring lesson with their students. 
Primary Audience: School Administrator, teachers and students 
Unit of Progress: % of curriculum/materials and online sessions delivered; TA log completion. Evidence: decks, handouts, attendance/TA logs.  Acceptance: Foundation acknowledgement of delivery.


Monthly Tracking Methodology (How A - D Tie to Milestone & Billing)
	•	Each month, the team records incremental % completed for each deliverable; these accumulate to 100% by Dec 2027.
	•	The Milestone Completion % earned is independent of sequence and is justified by documented work in any deliverable.
	•	Monthly Invoice = (The Milestone Completion % × Total Contract). Narrative evidence is attached to substantiate each monthly claim

Milestone Completion Summary (Total = 100%) 
Jun - Dec 2026 total ≈ 62.8%; Jan - Dec 2027 total ≈ 37.2%. 

Project Contacts
All relevant contacts for this contract are listed in Exhibit B. 


Initials: Foundation: _____; UTRGV: ______
EXHIBIT B
Contacts

Texas Trees Foundation
The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley
Administrative Contact
Name:    Iesha Perkins     
	Grants Lead                       
Address:   3000 Pegasus Park Dr.
Dallas, TX 75247                                                       
                    
                    
Telephone: (214) 9531184
Email: iesha@texastrees.org            
Administrative Contact
Name: Xin Yu 
            Sr. Research Services Coordinator                
Address: The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley
                Division of Research-Grants & Contracts   
                701 E. Expressway 83, MRIOB 4.362    
                 McAllen, TX 78501
Telephone: 956-665-3326
Emall: xin.yu@utrgv.edu 
Principal Investigator
Name:   Anabel Castillo-Soto   
   	Director of Strategic Initiatives
Address:   3000 Pegasus Park Dr.
	Dallas, TX 75247                                                          
Telephone: (214) 9531184
 Email: anabel@texastrees.org 
Principal Investigator
Name:    Alexis Racelis        
             
Address: The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley
                    1201 W. University Drive
                     Edinburg, TX 78539             
Telephone: 956-665-3656   
E-mail: alexis.racelis@utrgv.edu           
Financial Contact
Name: Beth Edwards
	Chief Financial Officer
Address:   3000 Pegasus Park Dr.
	Dallas, TX 75247                                                        
Telephone: (214) 9531184
Email: beth@texastrees.org  
accounting@texastrees.org
                    
Financial Contact
Name: Suelema Gonzalez  
               Director, Office of Grants & Contracts
Address: The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley
                     Grants and Contracts
                      1201 West University Drive
                      Edinburg, TX  78539         
Telephone: 956-882-7676        
Email: suelema.gonzalez@utrgv.edu | grantsandcontracts@utrgv.edu          	
Authorized Official
Name: Janette Monear
		Chief Executive Officer                   
Address:   3000 Pegasus Park Dr.
	Dallas, TX 75247                                                                           
Telephone: (214) 9531184
Email: janette@texastrees.org           
Authorized Official
Name: Dr. Thomas B. Spencer
            Sr. Assoc. VP for Research Operations
Address: The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley
1201 West University Drive 
Edinburg, TX 78539-2999
Telephone: 956-665-3883
Email: sponpro@utrgv.edu        


Initials: Foundation: _____; UTRGV: _____
EXHIBIT C
Insurance Requirements

The University of Texas System and its component institutions (“UT”), including The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (“UTRGV”), shall be excluded from the insurance requirements set forth in this Exhibit. Any indemnification obligations of UT shall be governed solely by the Agreement and applicable Texas law. UT is an agency of the State of Texas and, as such, is subject to the Texas Constitution and the doctrine of sovereign immunity, which preclude it from providing indemnification except where expressly authorized by law. UT does not maintain certain commercial liability coverages for claims arising from acts or omissions of its employees acting within the scope of employment and instead operates under a self-insured framework as permitted by state law. To the extent liability is waived, it is governed solely by the Texas Tort Claims Act, as amended from time to time. UT maintains automobile liability coverage consistent with applicable law and reserves the right to self-insure such coverage, in whole or in part, as permitted by law.
The insurance requirements set forth below shall not apply to UTRGV.
Employers’ Liability Insurance for damages because of bodily injury, occupational sickness or disease, or death of UTRGV’s employees. Such insurance shall be written limits of $500,000 each accident/$500,000 disease policy limits and $500,000 per disease per each employee.

Commercial General Liability Insurance written on an “occurrence” basis for damages because of bodily injury, property damage, personal and advertising injury arising out of UTRGV’s work and shall include coverage for:

	•	All operations and premises of UTRGV;
	•	All products and completed operations of UTRGV;
	•	All liability and/or responsibility assumed by UTRGV in Indemnity section of this Agreement.
	•	The Beneficiary and the Foundation as an additional insured;
	•	Defense expenses paid in addition to the policy limits;

Commercial General Liability insurance purchased by UTRGV shall provide the following minimum limits of liability and all coverages shall be maintained during and for at least three years after final completion of UTRGV’s work and at all times thereafter when UTRGV may be erecting, removing or replacing defective work or performing additional work and shall at all times include coverage for the Beneficiary and Foundation as additional insured as required above:

	•	$1,000,000 Each Occurrence Limit;
	•	$1,000,000 Personal & Advertising Injury - Per Person or Organization Limit
	•	$2,000,000 General Aggregate Limit
	•	$2,000,000 Products-Completed Operations Aggregate Limit

Umbrella Liability Insurance for damages because of bodily injury, property damage, personal and advertising injury, with, at a minimum, the same terms and conditions as the Employers’ Liability, Commercial General Liability, and Automobile Liability insurance required by this Agreement and arising out of UTRGV’s work.

Umbrella Liability insurance shall include the Beneficiary, the Foundation, their respective officers and employees, as additional insureds. Umbrella Liability insurance shall be written as excess of UTRGV’s Employers’ Liability, Commercial General Liability, and Automobile Liability Insurance (“underlying policies”) and also shall be written to drop down and provide primary insurance, including coverage for defense, for UTRGV in the event that an aggregate limit in the underlying policies has been exhausted.

Such insurance purchased by UTRGV shall provide the following minimum limits of liability and shall be maintained during and for at least three years after final completion of the Subcontract Work and at all times thereafter when UTRGV may be erecting, removing or replacing defective work or performing additional work and shall at all times include coverage for the Beneficiary and Foundation as additional insured as required above:

$1,000,000 Each Occurrence
$1,000,000 General Aggregate Limit
$1,000,000 Products-Completed Operations Aggregate Limit

Certificates of Insurance Certificates of insurance and supporting additional insured endorsements acceptable to the Foundation, including any additional coverages and/or amounts of coverage specified in the Agreement, shall be filed with the Foundation prior to the first event hosted by UTRGV. These certificates by this Section shall contain a provision that coverage afforded under the policies will not be canceled until at least 30 days’ prior written notice has been given to the Foundation. If any of the foregoing insurance coverages are required to remain in force after final completion of the Subcontract, additional certificates evidencing continuation of such coverage shall be submitted to the Foundation annually. The additional insureds shall be designated on said certificate and shall include confirmation that the coverage for the additional insureds is on a primary and non-contributory basis as required. Attached hereto is a sample certificate.

Receipt of copies of insurance policies or certificates of insurance does not waive the Foundation’s right to enforce any terms of this Agreement.

UTRGV shall require all its subcontractors to provide the same insurance as required of UTRGV, including adding the Beneficiary and the Foundation as additional insureds where required. As to the insurance required of UTRGV’s subcontractor, UTRGV agrees to obtain from their subcontractor’s insurance Foundation (or authorized agent) certificates of insurance as evidence of the required insurance, including the provision on the certificate of insurance that all policies will not be canceled until at least 30 days’ prior written notice has been given to the Foundation. Such certificates of insurance shall be filed with and acceptable to the Foundation prior to the execution of this Subcontract.

Failure of UTRGV to provide the insurance set forth in this Section or any proof of insurance as herein described may, at the option of the Foundation, result in UTRGV being terminated for cause, or in lieu of such action the Foundation at its option shall have the right to maintain all said insurance for and in the name of the UTRGV and UTRGV agrees to pay for the cost thereof and Foundation may deduct such cost from monies otherwise due UTRGV.




EXHIBIT D
Monthly Progress Activities and Milestone Narrative

2026-06
	•	Kickoff; confirm campus list currently listed in Exhibit E
	•	Remote-sensing baseline setup; compile prior-year climate rasters; metadata start.
	•	Dashboard scaffolding (data model, folders) and draft QA checklist.
	•	Draft baseline tables/figures; Monitoring Docs: SOP outlines + data dictionary v0.1.
	•	Dashboard ingestion prototype (CSV/GeoJSON) and first heat-surface visual.
	•	Baseline QA on early campuses; fill data gaps from March.
	•	Monitoring Docs v0.3 (procedures + quick-reference sheets).
	•	Dashboard v1 architecture (pages, filters, style); modeling assumptions v0.1.
	•	Baseline near-final package (campus summaries + canopy/heat overlays).
	•	Monitoring Docs v0.6 with checklists and field forms.
	•	Dashboard v1 feature buildout; start model runs with test inputs.

2026-07
	•	Baseline final QA; lock v1 tables & campus fact sheets.
	•	Monitoring Docs v0.8 (internal review).
	•	Dashboard v1 refinement; user notes; prep Training #1 outline.

2026-08
	•	Modeling visuals (heat/canopy projections) for reporting placeholders.
	•	Training materials v0.5 (slides/handouts); TA log structure.
	•	Dashboard v2 planning from v1 feedback.

2026-09
	•	Dashboard v2 early components (performance tweaks, extra layers).
	•	Figure templates and caption conventions.
	•	Dashboard usability pass; document limits and data caveats.
	•	Training materials v0.8; Monitoring Docs updates from field feedback.

2026-10
	•	Dashboard v2 near-final; ingestion & styling docs updated.
	•	Prep 2027 reporting workplan (review cycles, roles).

2026-11
	•	Model consolidation; align visuals with text; figure index build.
	•	Training #1 prep finalized; logistics confirmed.
	•	Collect feedback from TTF for the 2027 plan.

2026-12
	•	Year-end integration memo (baseline, docs, dashboard status).
	•	Deliver Training #1 (if scheduled) or finalize for January.
	•	Set January artifacts and reporting targets.

2027-01
	•	Online Training Session #1 delivery; feedback; materials update.
	•	Dashboard refinements (labels, legends, export).
	•	Compile Q1 reporting excerpts and TA logs.

2027-02
	•	Docs touch-ups (SOP clarifications) from training feedback.
	•	Prepare Training #2 content & schedule.

2027-03
	•	Online Training Session #2 delivery; TA logs & attendance.
	•	Identify last data gaps to close before final drafting.

2027-04
	•	Implementation Support Memo v0.5 drafted.
	•	Dashboard minor enhancements from training feedback.

2027-05
	•	Reporting refinements; crosswalk tables; glossary & appendix shells.
	•	Dashboard final edits (color ramps, accessibility).
	•	Assemble documentation bundles for review.

2027-06
	•	Implementation Support Memo finalized.
	•	Change-log template for comment integration.

2027-07
	•	
	•	Dashboard export package + admin notes (refresh/update).
	•	Archive interim artifacts per retention plan.

2027-08
	•	Integrate Foundation comments; reconcile redlines.
	•	Revisions to dashboard documentation and training addenda.
	•	Prep final graphics for layout.

2027-09
	•	narrative polish; references & appendix QA.
	•	Assemble final report packaging & metadata.

2027-10
	•	Deliver near-final dashboard & docs.
	•	Log final stakeholder review items and assign owners.

2027-11
	•	Address remaining comments; finalize artifacts; archive sources.
	•	Prepare delivery letters & distribution list.

2027-12
	•	Post-mortem notes and sustainability handoff.

Milestone Allocation and Billing Schedule Table
For each month, the invoice amount shown below is distributed across Deliverables A - D in proportion to the incremental milestone completion percentages. The table below provides the corresponding allocation amounts based on the total contract value.

Month
Alloc A
Alloc B
Alloc C
Alloc D
Total
26-Jun
$25,422 
$9,779 
$6,942 
$0.00 
$42,143 
26-Jul
$12,516 
$5,393.00 
$8,475.00 
$0.00 
$26,384 
26-Aug
$6,357 
$4,843.00 
$4,314.00 
$0.00 
$15,514 
26-Sep
$3,390.00 
$0.00 
$3,632.00 
$0.00 
$7,022 
26-Oct
$2,542.00 
$0.00 
$3,730.00 
$0.00 
$6,272 
26-Nov
$2,415.00 
$1,695.00 
$3,390.00 
$0.00 
$7,500 
26-Dec
$2,157 
$0.00 
$1,694.00 
$0.00 
$3,851 
27-Jan
$1,695.00 
$0.00 
$1,694.00 
$0.00 
$3,389 
27-Feb
$0.00 
$3,390.00 
$1,694.00 
$508.00 
$5,592 
27-Mar
$0.00 
$0.00 
$0.00 
$3,390.00 
$3,390 
27-Apr
$0.00 
$0.00 
$0.00 
$5,085.00 
$5,085 
27-May
$0.00 
$1,017.00 
$0.00 
$5,085.00 
$6,102 
27-Jun
$0.00 
$0.00 
$0.00 
$5,085.00 
$5,085 
27-Jul
$0.00 
$0.00 
$0.00 
$5,085.00 
$5,085 
27-Aug
$0.00 
$0.00 
$0.00 
$5,085.00 
$5,085 
27-Sep
$0.00 
$0.00 
$0.00 
$5,085.00 
$5,085 
27-Oct
$0.00 
$0.00 
$847.00 
$3,390.00 
$4,237 
27-Nov
$0.00 
$0.00 
$805.00 
$0.00 
$805 
27-Dec
$0.00 
$0.00 
$0.00 
$0.00 
$0 





$157,626.00 


Initials: Foundation: _____; UTRGV: _____
EXHIBIT E
Campus list

Mercedes Independent School District
	•	Ruben Hinojosa Elementary School (500 S Rio Rd, Mercedes TX 78570) 
	•	W.B. Travis Elementary School (1551 S Georgia Ave, Mercedes, TX 78570) 
	•	Sgt. Manuel Chacon Middle School (801 South Mile 1, Mercedes TX 78570) 
	•	Sgt. William G. Harrell Elementary School (2825 N FM 491, Mercedes, TX 78570) 
	•	Mercedes High School (1200 S. Florida St, Mercedes, TX, 78570) 
	•	Mercedes Academic Academy (319 S. Mile 1, Mercedes, TX, 78570) 

Donna Independent School District
	•	J.W. Caceres Discovery Intermediate Academy (503 S Hutto Rd, Donna, TX 78537) 
	•	P.S. Garza Elementary School (8801 W Alberta Rd, Donna, TX 78537) 
	•	A.M. Ochoa Primary Science & Sports Academy (424 S 11th St, Donna TX 78537) 
	•	M. Rivas Primary Discovery Academy (503 S Hutto Rd, Donna, TX 78537) 
	•	Captain D. Salinas II STEAM Academy (333 US-83 Business, Alamo TX 78516) 
	•	C. Stainke Intermediate Science & Sports Academy (1309 S Avenue, Donna TX 78537) 
	•	Daniel Singleterry Senior Elementary School (9113 N Val Verde Rd, Donna, TX 78537) 
	•	A.P. Solis Middle School (700 South Ave, Donna, TX 78537) 




















Initials: Foundation: _____; UTRGV: _______
